.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" psf2vfont.1: psf2vfont man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007, 2021 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007, 2021  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH psf2vfont 1 "22 January, 2020" "Version 1.1.1" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
psf2vfont - convert a PC Screen Font file to a BSD vfont
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B psf2vfont
.RI [ "--v1" ]
.RI [ "--v2" ]
.RI [ "--big-endian" ]
.RI [ "--basepoint=x,y" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
psf2vfont converts a font in the .PSF format to the BSD vfont(5) format.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.B --v1
Output in the original vfont(5) format. This is subject to the limitations
of the format: At most 256 characters, at most 127x127 pixels per character,
and no Unicode directory.
.TP
.B --v2
Output in vfont2(5) format. This allows more characters, larger bitmaps,
and Unicode, but is currently supported by psftools utilities.
.TP
.B --big-endian
When writing in the original vfont format, create a big-endian file 
(suitable for platforms such as SunOS).
.TP
.B --basepoint=x,y
In a vfont each character has a basepoint, and when characters are printed 
the basepoints are used to align them. By default this will be calculated 
as the bottom left-hand corner of character 65 (capital A). This option 
allows it to be set manually.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" .SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
vfont2psf(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.
.PP
