.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" vfont2ppm.1: vfont2ppm man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007, 2021 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007, 2021  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH vfont2ppm 1 "22 January, 2021" "Version 1.1.1" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
vfont2ppm - convert a vfont or vfont2 file to a portable bitmap
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B vfont2ppm
.RI [ "-across=columns" ]
.RI [ "-align" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
vfont2ppm converts a font in the .PSF format to a Portable PixMap image
showing all its characters, 32 (by default) to a line. This allows vfont
files to be previewed easily - just pipe them to "vfont2ppm | xv -".
.PP
In the resulting image, the character's baseline point will be shown in red,
with the horizontal and vertical baselines in green. If the baseline point 
is outside the character bitmap, the space between it and the bitmap will
be shown in yellow.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --across=columns
Set the number of columns to display (32 by default). The count of rows
will be derived from the count of columns.
.B --align
By default, the character bitmaps are shown with no attempt to align them
horizontally or vertically - so a character with a descender, like "p", may
appear at different height from one without, like "o". If the
.I --align
option is present, their horizontal and vertical basepoints will be aligned
to a grid. This may result in more white space between the bitmaps.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
xv(1), psf2xbm(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.
.PP
