.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" vfont2psf.1: vfont2psf man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007, 2021 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007, 2021  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH vfont2psf 1 "22 January, 2020" "Version 1.1.1" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
vfont2psf - convert a BSD vfont file to a PC Screen Font 
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B vfont2psf
.RI [ "--psf1" ]
.RI [ "--psf2" ]
.RI [ "--align" ]
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
vfont2psf converts a font in the BSD vfont(5) format to the PC Screen
Font format.
.LP 
Since characters in a vfont can be of variable size, and PSF is a fixed-size
format, all characters will be increased to the size of the largest character
in the file.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.B --psf1
Output in PSF version 1 format.
.TP
.B --v2
Output in PSF version 2 format.
.TP
.B --align
In a vfont each character has a basepoint, and when characters are printed 
the basepoints are used to align them. If this option is present, the 
character bitmaps are moved so that they align correctly; this may further
increase the size of bitmaps compared to when the option is not used.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" .SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
psf2vfont(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.
.PP
