.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" vfont2txt.1: vfont2txt man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2007, 2021 John Elliott
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" psftools: Manipulate console fonts in the .PSF format
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2007, 2021  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH vfont2txt 1 "22 January, 2020" "Version 1.1.1" "PSF Tools"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
vfont2txt - convert a BSD vfont file to text
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B vfont2txt
.RI [ INPUTFILE 
.RI [ OUTPUTFILE ]]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP 
vfont2txt converts a font in the vfont(5) format to a human-readable 
textual format. The resulting file can be edited manually and
later converted back using txt2vfont(1).
.LP
The file format used is as documented under txt2vfont(1). When character 
bitmaps are output, the location of the baseline point is marked with 
an 'O' (blank) or '@' (dot) character, with '=' marking the horizontal 
position of the baseline and '|' the corresponding vertical. When the file
is parsed by txt2vfont(1) the location of the 'O' or '@' (if present) will 
be checked against the 'Left' and 'Up' values that locate the baseline point,
and a warning issued if they differ.
.LP
The header of the file will include three purely notational fields:
.I BitmapLength
,
.I MaxWidth
and
.I
MaxHeight
\. These are ignored by txt2vfont(1). 
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH OPTIONS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
txt2vfont(1), psf2txt(1) txt2psf(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <seasip.webmaster@gmail.com>.
.PP
